2296 add otelcol processor tail sampling component (#2913)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.processor.tail_sampling.md

instance for effective sampling decisions.

The `tail_sampling` component uses both soft and hard limits, where the hard limit
is always equal or larger than the soft limit. When memory usage goes above the
soft limit, the processor component drops data and returns errors to the
preceding components in the pipeline. When usage exceeds the hard
limit, the processor forces a garbage collection in order to try and free
memory. When usage is below the soft limit, no data is dropped and no forced
garbage collection is performed.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.processor.tail_sampling` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib `tail_sampling` processor. Bug reports or feature
> requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.processor.tail_sampling` components can be specified by
giving them different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.processor.tail_sampling "LABEL" {
  decision_wait               = "10s"
  num_traces                  = 100
  expected_new_traces_per_sec = 10
  policy {
    ...
  }
  policy {
    ...
  }
  ...

  output {
    traces  = [...]
  }

> }

Author: all set

```

## Arguments

`otelcol.processor.tail_sampling` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`decision_wait`               | `duration` | Wait time since the first span of a trace before making a sampling decision. | `"30s"` | no
`num_traces`                  | `int`      | Number of traces kept in memory. | `50000` | no

> `expected_new_traces_per_sec` | `int`      | Expected number of new traces (helps in allocating data structures). | `0` | no

Author: attempted below, let me know if you are looking for different.

policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > numeric_attribute | [numeric_attribute] | The policy will sample based on number attributes (resource and record). | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > probabilistic     | [probabilistic] | The policy will sample a percentage of traces. | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > status_code       | [status_code] | The policy will sample based upon the status code. | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > string_attribute  | [string_attribute] | The policy will sample based on string attributes (resource and record) value matches. | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > rate_limiting     | [rate_limiting] | The policy will sample based on rate. | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > span_count        | [span_count] | The policy will sample based on the minimum number of spans within a batch. | no
policy > composite > composite_sub_policy > trace_state       | [trace_state] | The policy will sample based on TraceState value matches. | no
output                                                        | [output] [] | Configures where to send received telemetry data. | yes

> [policy]: #policy-block

Author: all set

different sampling rates, configuring different salts avoids that.

[status_code]: #status_code-block

### status_code block

The `status_code` block configures a policy of type `status_code`. The policy will sample based upon the status code.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`status_codes` | `string` [] | holds the configurable settings to create a status code filter sampling policy evaluator. | | yes

`status_codes` values must be "OK", "ERROR" or "UNSET".

[string_attribute]: #string_attribute-block

### string_attribute block

The `string_attribute` block configures a policy of type `string_attribute`. The policy will sample based on string attributes (resource and record) value matches, both exact and regex value matches are supported.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`key`                    | `string`    | Tag that the filter is going to be matching against. | | yes

> `values`                 | `string` [] | Values indicate the set of values or regular expressions to use when matching against attribute values. | | yes

Author: all set (had conflicting suggestion on line so I manually implemented)

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`spans_per_second` | `number` | Sets the limit on the maximum number of spans that can be processed each second. | | yes

[span_count]: #span_count-block

### span_count block

The `span_count` block configures a policy of type `span_count`. The policy will sample based on the minimum number of spans within a batch. If all traces within the batch have less number of spans than the threshold, the batch will not be sampled.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`min_spans` | `number` | Minimum number of spans in a Trace. | | yes

[trace_state]: #trace_state-block

### trace_state block

The `trace_state` block configures a policy of type `trace_state`. The policy will sample based on TraceState value matches.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`key`                    | `string`    | Tag that the filter is going to be matching against. | | yes

> `values`                 | `string` [] | Values indicate the set of values to use when matching against trace_state values. | | yes

Author: all set (had conflicting suggestion on line so I manually implemented)

### composite_sub_policy block

The `composite_sub_policy` block configures a sampling policy used by the `composite` block. At least 1 `composite_sub_policy` block is required inside a `composite` block.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`name` | `string` | The custom name given to the policy. | | yes
`type` | `string` | The valid policy type for this policy. | | yes

[output]: #output-block

### output block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/output-block.md" source="agent" >}}

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description
---- | ---- | -----------
`input` | `otelcol.Consumer` | A value that other components can use to send telemetry data to.

`input` accepts `otelcol.Consumer` data for any telemetry signal (metrics,
logs, or traces).

## Component health

`otelcol.processor.tail_sampling` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.processor.tail_sampling` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

> This example batches trace data from the agent before sending it to
> [otelcol.exporter.otlp][] for further processing. This example shows an impracticle amount of policies for the purpose of demonstrating how to set each type up:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example batches trace data from Grafana Agent before sending it to
[otelcol.exporter.otlp][] for further processing. This example shows an impractical number of policies for the purpose of demonstrating how to set up each type.
```

> [otelcol.exporter.otlp][] for further processing. This example shows an impracticle amount of policies for the purpose of demonstrating how to set each type up:

Author: all set

> ```river

Author: all set
